README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  <img src="./docs/logo.svg" alt="Nano Scan logo" height="64" valign="middle">
  <div>Nano Scan</div>
</h1>

**NanoScan** is a lightweight, high-performance web barcode and QR code scanner powered by
[`zxing-wasm`](https://github.com/Sec-ant/zxing-wasm). Designed for maximum compatibility and flexibility, it supports
all barcode types recognized by zxing-wasm and includes enhanced support for small or distant codes via canvas-based
zooming.

<div align="center">
  <h3>
    <a href="https://pedx.github.io/nano-scan/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
      👉 Try the live demo
    </a>
  </h3>
</div>

<p align="center">
 <img src="./docs/qrcode.svg" alt="Nano Scan QR Code Test" width="1086px" align="middle">
</p>

## ✨ Features

- 🔍 **Supports All ZXing Formats** Full access to `zxing-wasm`'s decoding capabilities, including QR codes, EAN, Code
  128, and more.

- 🎥 **Camera Zoom Fallback** Automatically falls back to canvas-based digital zoom when native camera zoom APIs are not
  available — ideal for scanning small codes (~1cm).

- ⚡️ **Tiny & Easy to Integrate** Minimal footprint and a clean API make NanoScan easy to drop into any web project.

## Install

```bash
npm install nano-scan
```

## Basic Usage

```js
import NanoScan from 'nano-scan';

const nanoScan = new NanoScan({
  container: document.getElementById('camera-container'),
  resolution: {
    width: 1080,
    height: 1080,
  },
  fps: 30,
  zoom: 2,
  onScan: (result) => {
    console.log(result);
  },
  onError: (error) => {
    console.error(error);
  },
});

// Start scanning
nanoScan.startScan();

// Stop scanning
nanoScan.stopScan();
```

## Class: NanoScan

Main class providing barcode/QR code scanning functionality.

### Constructor

```ts
constructor(options: INanoScanOptions)
```

#### Parameters

`options` - Configuration object of type `INanoScanOptions`

### Configuration Options (INanoScanOptions)

| Parameter      | Type                                | Default                                                           | Description                                                                    |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `container`    | `HTMLElement \| null`               | `null`                                                            | **Required**. HTML container element for displaying camera preview             |
| `resolution`   | `{ width: number, height: number }` | `{ width: 1080, height: 1080 }`                                   | Camera resolution                                                              |
| `zxingOptions` | `ReaderOptions`                     | `{ tryHarder: true, formats: ['QRCode'], maxNumberOfSymbols: 1 }` | zxing-wasm reader options                                                      |
| `zxingWASMUrl` | `string`                            | `undefined`                                                       | Custom zxing-wasm WebAssembly file URL                                         |
| `marker`       | `boolean`                           | `true`                                                            | Whether to display scan result marker                                          |
| `frame`        | `boolean`                           | `true`                                                            | Whether to display scan frame                                                  |
| `fps`          | `number`                            | `30`                                                              | Scanning frame rate                                                            |
| `zoom`         | `number`                            | `1`                                                               | Initial zoom level                                                             |
| `trick`        | `boolean`                           | `true`                                                            | Whether to use rotation trick for optimized scanning (helps with angled codes) |
| `onScan`       | `(result: string) => void`          | `noop`                                                            | Callback function when a result is scanned                                     |
| `onError`      | `(error: Error) => void`            | `noop`                                                            | Callback function when an error occurs                                         |

### Methods

#### startScan()

Starts the scanning process.

```ts
async startScan(): Promise<void>
```

Initializes the camera, sets up canvases, and begins the scanning loop.

#### stopScan()

Stops the scanning process.

```ts
stopScan(): void
```

Stops the camera and scanning loop.

#### zoomIn(step?)

Zooms in the camera view.

```ts
zoomIn(step: number = 0.1): void
```

| Parameter | Type     | Default | Description          |
| --------- | -------- | ------- | -------------------- |
| `step`    | `number` | `0.1`   | Amount to zoom in by |

#### zoomOut(step?)

Zooms out the camera view.

```ts
zoomOut(step: number = 0.1): void
```

| Parameter | Type     | Default | Description           |
| --------- | -------- | ------- | --------------------- |
| `step`    | `number` | `0.1`   | Amount to zoom out by |

#### zoomTo(zoom)

Zooms the camera view to a specific level.

```ts
zoomTo(zoom: number): void
```

| Parameter | Type     | Description       |
| --------- | -------- | ----------------- |
| `zoom`    | `number` | Zoom level to set |

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

feat: implement torch toggle functionality in NanoScan; update README.md with new method details and enhance UI with torch button in index.html

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  <img src="./docs/logo.svg" alt="Nano Scan logo" height="64" valign="middle">
  <div>Nano Scan</div>
</h1>

**NanoScan** is a lightweight, high-performance web barcode and QR code scanner powered by
[`zxing-wasm`](https://github.com/Sec-ant/zxing-wasm). Designed for maximum compatibility and flexibility, it supports
all barcode types recognized by zxing-wasm and includes enhanced support for small or distant codes via canvas-based
zooming.

<div align="center">
  <h3>
    <a href="https://pedx.github.io/nano-scan/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
      👉 Try the live demo
    </a>
  </h3>
</div>

<p align="center">
 <img src="./docs/qrcode.svg" alt="Nano Scan QR Code Test" width="1086px" align="middle">
</p>

## ✨ Features

- 🔍 **Supports All ZXing Formats** Full access to `zxing-wasm`'s decoding capabilities, including QR codes, EAN, Code
  128, and more.

- 🎥 **Camera Zoom Fallback** Automatically falls back to canvas-based digital zoom when native camera zoom APIs are not
  available — ideal for scanning small codes (~1cm).

- ⚡️ **Tiny & Easy to Integrate** Minimal footprint and a clean API make NanoScan easy to drop into any web project.

## Install

```bash
npm install nano-scan
```

## Basic Usage

```js
import NanoScan from 'nano-scan';

const nanoScan = new NanoScan({
  container: document.getElementById('camera-container'),
  resolution: {
    width: 1080,
    height: 1080,
  },
  fps: 30,
  zoom: 2,
  onScan: (result) => {
    console.log(result);
  },
  onError: (error) => {
    console.error(error);
  },
});

// Start scanning
nanoScan.startScan();

// Stop scanning
nanoScan.stopScan();
```

## Class: NanoScan

Main class providing barcode/QR code scanning functionality.

### Constructor

```ts
constructor(options: INanoScanOptions)
```

#### Parameters

`options` - Configuration object of type `INanoScanOptions`

### Configuration Options (INanoScanOptions)

| Parameter      | Type                                | Default                                                           | Description                                                                    |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `container`    | `HTMLElement \| null`               | `null`                                                            | **Required**. HTML container element for displaying camera preview             |
| `resolution`   | `{ width: number, height: number }` | `{ width: 1080, height: 1080 }`                                   | Camera resolution                                                              |
| `zxingOptions` | `ReaderOptions`                     | `{ tryHarder: true, formats: ['QRCode'], maxNumberOfSymbols: 1 }` | zxing-wasm reader options                                                      |
| `zxingWASMUrl` | `string`                            | `undefined`                                                       | Custom zxing-wasm WebAssembly file URL                                         |
| `marker`       | `boolean`                           | `true`                                                            | Whether to display scan result marker                                          |
| `frame`        | `boolean`                           | `true`                                                            | Whether to display scan frame                                                  |
| `fps`          | `number`                            | `30`                                                              | Scanning frame rate                                                            |
| `zoom`         | `number`                            | `1`                                                               | Initial zoom level                                                             |
| `trick`        | `boolean`                           | `true`                                                            | Whether to use rotation trick for optimized scanning (helps with angled codes) |
| `onScan`       | `(result: string) => void`          | `noop`                                                            | Callback function when a result is scanned                                     |
| `onError`      | `(error: Error) => void`            | `noop`                                                            | Callback function when an error occurs                                         |

### Methods

#### startScan()

Starts the scanning process.

```ts
async startScan(): Promise<void>
```

Initializes the camera, sets up canvases, and begins the scanning loop.

#### stopScan()

Stops the scanning process.

```ts
stopScan(): void
```

Stops the camera and scanning loop.

#### zoomIn(step?)

Zooms in the camera view.

```ts
zoomIn(step: number = 0.1): void
```

| Parameter | Type     | Default | Description          |
| --------- | -------- | ------- | -------------------- |
| `step`    | `number` | `0.1`   | Amount to zoom in by |

#### zoomOut(step?)

Zooms out the camera view.

```ts
zoomOut(step: number = 0.1): void
```

| Parameter | Type     | Default | Description           |
| --------- | -------- | ------- | --------------------- |
| `step`    | `number` | `0.1`   | Amount to zoom out by |

#### zoomTo(zoom)

Zooms the camera view to a specific level.

```ts
zoomTo(zoom: number): void
```

| Parameter | Type     | Description       |
| --------- | -------- | ----------------- |
| `zoom`    | `number` | Zoom level to set |

#### toggleTorch(open)

Toggles the camera's torch (flashlight) on or off, if supported by the device.

```ts
toggleTorch(bool: boolean): void
```

| Parameter | Type     | Description       |
| --------- | -------- | ----------------- |
| `bool`    | `boolean` | torch (flashlight) on or off |

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)
